Now that we have analyzed the scheme a bit,
we're ready to do a little more deeper statistical analysis.
This may be a review for many of you,
but we will not go into as much depth.
However, we want to cover the basics so
that you can use this information to inform later steps.
First, let's review distributions,
I know that you know these cold,
but I'm just making sure.
For this course, we will really just try to identify two shapes, normal and uniform.
Normal, it's the well-known bell curve that most people are familiar
with and it's also referred to as a Gaussian distribution.
A uniform distribution is where the unique values have
almost the same frequency and this is
important because this might indicate some issue with the data.
Skewed unbalanced data distributions,
as the name indicates,
are where a smaller subset of values or single value dominates.
There are other types of distributions like bimodal and poisson,
but for the scope of this course,
we will not cover those.
For this next activity,
we'll go to the notebook and before that,
we first need to load the dataset.
This is the Cleveland Clinic dataset that we referred to earlier,
when we were doing a data scheme analysis.
So you can see we're loading the dataset and you can see the data frame output.
Now we'll move into actually looking at
different value distributions for both categorical and numeric values.
The first column we'll analyze is the sex column.
You can see based on this distribution,
that there are greater amounts of male than females in our dataset.
Next, we will look at the field for chest pain and
see that the largest distribution is for asymptomatic.
Even without knowing much about this data,
you could guess that the higher frequency value is
likely the less severe condition and more prevalent.
Now that we've explored some of the data,
we'll look at numeric value distributions.
I create some synthetic data to show normal and uniform distributions,
which you can see here.
So here is the normal distribution example and here's a uniform distribution example.
Now, let's use some actual data from the Cleveland dataset on resting blood pressure.
What type of distribution are we dealing with here?
That's right, it's normal,
with a little left skew,
but we're not worried about that right now.
Now that you've looked at some examples of data skew,
we're ready to move on to the next section.